>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Talked
about EF core.
Now let's talk about actually
adding it into our application.
But before we do that,
we need to talk about a couple of things.
So if you took my last course,
I talked about IEnumerable and
LINQ (Language Integrated Query) in great detail.
But there is a construct inside of
.NET that is equally as important and
certainly much more important to libraries
like EF Core, and it's called IQueryable.
So you'll remember that an IEnumerable
is a collection of things.
It's an abstraction that
represents a collection of things.
It could be a list of strings.
It could be an array of strings,
whatever the case may be.
And it has a couple of properties
that are important to note for
this particular thing.
Remember that you can do a foreach
loop through each of those items, right?
So foreach can work on that.
You'll recall as well that LINQ
can operate on IEnumerable.
So all of those methods,
Select and Where and ToList,
those are all extension methods
that are hooked onto IEnumerable.
So copied straight from the last
course is lazy evaluation.
Was I lazy when I was copying as well?
Maybe so... But lazy evaluations is
a concept that basically states
that when you create a certain
type of IEnumerable,
like if you're using Where or Select,
those methods are not actually.
Those methods are not actually called,
those collections are not
actually materialized,
until you start actually trying to access
objects, either by a foreach loop.
Or something that brings them into memory,
ToList or ToArray.
So this example,
numbers.Where defines the query, but
it doesn't actually execute it immediately.
And this is a really important property
like I said in my previous course,
it has a lot of implications.
There is one keyword that
you should look up and
understand as you get into your
.NET journey It's called "yield".
And it is something that,
as I mentioned in my previous course,
a lot of complexity under the hood.
But it essentially creates something
called a state machine that keeps track of
what elements you've
returned at that point.
Wouldn't worry too much about it now,
except to understand
the implications of that thing.
In addition to IEnumerable,
there's a construct called IQueryable, and
that's where we're going to put a lot of
our focus because it is
very important to EF Core.
So it's an interface that represents a
collection of objects that can be queried.
It is .NET Standard, so
it's in the core .NET libraries.
And everything inside of EF Core that you
use to query databases is an IQueryable.
It is similar, but different
from IEnumerable in one core way.
It is used for querying data from
a non in memory data source.
Remember that we're talking to a database,
right?
We're not talking to a collection
of objects in memory.
If we have a billion rows in a database,
it doesn't really make any sense for .NET
to load all those billion rows just so
it can provide LINQ operations on them.
And that's where IQueryable comes in.
Before we can dive
further into IQueryable,
we have to talk about these
things called Expressions.
Now, I could do at least a half a day
course on the expression API and
the implications of Expressions and
what they mean and what they do.
But suffice it to say that
an Expression is similar
to a function definition,
but not exactly the same.
So these are both very
valid lines of C sharp.
You have your ToLower method where you
defined a func or a function that takes
in a string, a single parameter called
of string, and then returns a string.
So, you can see that here in what
they call the expression body.
You can see that here's our parameters,
and this is our expression body,
which is s.ToLower.
So, s goes into s.ToLower,
so it's a string, and
then you call the ToLower method,
and this method will.
You can invoke, just like any other
method, this is valid C sharp as well.
But what does it do?
Well, the difference is, is that the first
is a function that takes a string and
returns a string, but
the second is an expression which
represents the data structure.
It's basically a data structure
that represents that function.
And if you tried to,
let's go ahead and attempt to do that.
In our code here,
we'll just write a random test,
void ExpressionTest, go here.
Let's copy and
paste these lines of code in, again,
both of these are valid C sharp.
I do believe this needs to be imported and
it does, okay, perfect.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: We'll
call it toLowerExpression.
The difference is that if we wrote
a string, like, if we had a string like.
Spencer, so var name="SPENCER".
We call ToLower is a function.
It's just a function
declared as a variable.
So we can do that and you can see
that it takes in a single argument.
We can pass in that name and
it's going to return spencer like that.
The expression, however,
is not a function, at least not yet.
It's actually a data structure.
So if you try to call toLowerExpression,
and you try to call name,
compiler is gonna complain at you and
say, what are you doing?
This is not a thing ToLower method,
name, expression,
expected 'cause it's not a method.
So expressions have a lot of cool
properties and I could talk about them for
another hour at the very least.
But it's important to know that it's data
that an IQueryable can use, interpret,
and then break it down into, translate it
into SQL so that a database can use it.
Another fun fact about expressions is you
can create them real time at runtime,
and then you can compile them, and
then call them like a function.
So these actually can be compiled in
memory, kind of a really cool thing.
So it is a representation of
code that is what it is, but
it is not the code itself, not yet.
And I could dive more into it.
But if you did want to learn more,
and I'm not gonna do that now, but
if you did wanna learn about it,
I have a talk at this point.
It's been five years since
I've given that talk.
I've been giving this talk for
ten years, and
it still gets picked up by conferences,
because it's still a relevant topic.
And even this five year old talk
has plenty of stuff in it, so
I would recommend that.
You go and
watch that if you wanna learn more, but
I just wanted to explain IQueryable is
a construct that allows us to query
a collection that does
not exist in memory.
And that expression trees are kinda
the conduit with which we express to
the IQueryable what it is we want and
how we get it.